dua_qos_cpp/README.md, before:

# dua_qos_cpp

Collection of getter functions that return common ROS 2 Quality of Service (QoS) profiles for DUA C++ software packages.

## Contents

This library, meant to be *shared* so that multiple DUA modules can link against it, contains many different QoS profile getters. Such profiles are intended for **topics**, since services and actions have their own QoS profiles; those could be modified too, but handling the many different possible repercussions of such a change on their client-server, stateful communications is beyond the scope of this library.

Topics are divided into two categories, which correspond to the two main types of transmission in a ROS 2 network and to two distinct namespaces in the library:

- **Data topics**, which are critical for the correct functioning of the system and are intended to be used for the transmission of data. They correspond to the `DUAQoS` namespace.
- **Visualization topics**, which are not critical at all and are only intended to be used for inspection purposes, by tools such as RViz 2. They correspond to the `DUAQoS::Visualization` namespace.

The contents of each namespace are described below. Each getter takes an additional argument which is the *depth* of the QoS profile, *i.e.*, the maximum number of samples that can be stored in the history of the topic. This is useful to avoid memory leaks in case of a slow consumer, but it is not always necessary to set it to a value greater than 1. There are default values, which are suggested in most situations.

### `DUAQoS`

- `get_datum_qos`: Returns a QoS profile for a data topic that is critical for the correct functioning of the system, so reliable by default.
- `get_command_qos`: Returns a QoS profile for a command topic that is critical for the correct functioning of the system, so reliable by default.
- `get_scan_qos`: Returns a QoS profile for a spatial scan topic, *e.g.*, laser scan, pointcloud, or map, that must be reliable but with a low depth because of their potential size.
- `get_image_qos`: Returns a QoS profile for an image topic, *e.g.*, camera image; reliable transmission of large messages such as images is very bandwidth-intensive and could clog a DDS network over a lossy link (*i.e.*, WiFi), so use this with care.
- `get_action_server_options`: Returns an options structure for an action server, which is largely made of QoS profiles.
- `get_action_client_options`: Returns an options structure for an action client, which is largely made of QoS profiles.

### `DUAQoS::Visualization`

These getters all have a best-effort reliability policy, since visualization topics are not critical for the correct functioning of the system and their loss should not be a problem, whereas they should not take up too much bandwidth.

- `get_datum_qos`: Returns a QoS profile for a data topic.
- `get_command_qos`: Returns a QoS profile for a command topic.
- `get_scan_qos`: Returns a QoS profile for a spatial scan topic, *e.g.*, laser scan, pointcloud, or map.
- `get_image_qos`: Returns a QoS profile for an image topic, *e.g.*, camera image.

---

## Copyright and License

Copyright 2024 dotX Automation s.r.l.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.

You may obtain a copy of the License at <http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0>.

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.

See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.

Commit message:

feat: dua_qos_cpp: QoS profiles redesign

dua_qos_cpp/README.md, after:

# dua_qos_cpp

Collection of getter functions that return common ROS 2 Quality of Service (QoS) profiles for DUA C++ software packages.

## Contents

This library, meant to be *shared* so that multiple DUA modules can link against it, contains many different QoS profile getters. Such profiles are intended for **topics**, since services and actions have their own QoS profiles; those could be modified too, but handling the many different possible repercussions of such a change on their client-server, stateful communications is beyond the scope of this library.

Topics are divided into two categories, which correspond to the two main types of transmission in a ROS 2 network and to two distinct namespaces in the library:

- **Reliable**, which are critical for the correct functioning of the system and are intended to be used for the transmission of data. They correspond to the `dua_qos::Reliable` namespace.
- **Best-effort**, which are not critical at all and are only intended to be used for inspection purposes, *e.g.*, by external visualization tools such as RViz 2. They correspond to the `dua_qos::BestEffort` namespace.

The contents of each namespace are described below. Some getters take an additional argument which is the *depth* of the QoS profile with a `KeepLast` policy, *i.e.*, the maximum number of samples that can be stored in the history of the topic. This is useful to avoid memory leaks in case of a slow consumer, but it is not always necessary to set it to a value greater than 1. There are default values, which are suggested in most situations. `datum` profiles always have a `KeepAll` policy, since an additional layer of buffering subject to drops or blocks is not required.

### `dua_qos`

- `get_action_server_options`: Returns an options structure for an action server, which is largely made of QoS profiles.
- `get_action_client_options`: Returns an options structure for an action client, which is largely made of QoS profiles.

#### `dua_qos::Reliable` and `dua_qos::BestEffort`

- `get_datum_qos`: Returns a QoS profile for a data topic that is critical for the correct functioning of the system.
- `get_scan_qos`: Returns a QoS profile for a spatial scan topic, *e.g.*, laser scan, pointcloud, or map, with a low depth because of their potential size.
- `get_image_qos`: Returns a QoS profile for an image topic, *e.g.*, camera image, with a configurable depth; reliable transmission of large messages such as images is very bandwidth-intensive and could clog a DDS network over a lossy link (*i.e.*, WiFi), so use this with care.

---

## Copyright and License

Copyright 2024 dotX Automation s.r.l.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.

You may obtain a copy of the License at <http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0>.

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.

See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
